Announce 2023 roadmap (#2545)
getporter/porter: docs/content/blog/2023-roadmap.md

---
title: "Porter's 2023 Roadmap"
description: "What's on the docket for Porter in 2023"
date: "2023-01-31"
authorname: "Carolyn Van Slyck"
author: "@carolynvs"
authorlink: "https://carolynvanslyck.com/"
authorimage: "https://github.com/carolynvs.png"
tags: ["roadmap"]
---

Now that 2022 is finally over and [Porter v1 is out the door](https://getporter.org/blog/v1-is-here/), I'd like to share our plans for this coming year.
<!--more-->

You can find a review of 2022 and our high level plans for 2023 in our [Porter Annual Review for 2022](https://github.com/cncf/toc/pull/951/files) but let's go over the highlights for a sneek peak of what's to come.

* [Porter Operator](#porter-operator)
* [Advanced Dependencies](#advanced-dependencies)
* [Improved Bundle Security](#improved-bundle-security)
* [Signing and SBOMs](#signing-and-sboms)

### Porter Operator

The [Porter Operator](/operator/) is a Kubernetes operator that runs bundles on your cluster. With the operator you can:

* Automate running bundles on Kubernetes
* Upgrade to new versions of bundles when they are released
* Integrate bundle deployments into your existing pipelines

> Many users, especially adopters with large-scale Porter deployments, are eagerly awaiting managing their installations using a GitOps based workflow with the Porter Operator and Flux. We made great progress on the operator last year and our [v1 milestone](https://github.com/getporter/operator/milestone/1) outlines the remaining work necessary for a stable release.

Reviewer: Do we want to encourage people to try it out and give feedback?

Author: Yes, absolutely. I'll add a call to action for that.

Currently, they are distributed as binaries, and embedded inside the bundle's image.

We want to improve bundle security by distributing and executing **mixins as bundles**, essentially decomposing bundles into smaller bundles that we can more securely distribute and execute ([PEP005](https://github.com/getporter/proposals/blob/main/pep/005-mixins-are-bundles.md)).
This has a number of advantages such as:

  * Secure distribution mechanism of mixins. 
    This allows us to no longer need to "install" mixins, or trust those installed mixins.
    Bundles can reference mixins from OCI registries and take advantage of existing security tooling and software to distribute, scan, and sign mixins.
  * Isolate credentials used by a bundle to just the relevant portions of the bundle.
    For example, only the Azure mixin should have access to your Azure credentials, and only the Helm mixin should have access to your kubeconfig.
    Credentials applicable to one mixin are not exposed to other unrelated mixins or scripts in the bundle.
  * Achieve significant performance improvements due to improved reuse of cached image layers.

> All of this relies upon the Advanced Dependencies feature first, so this will be delivered after that work is completed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
All these features rely upon the Advanced Dependencies feature, so these will be delivered after that work is completed.
```
